---
layout:     post
title:      "Entity framework core"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2024-1-18 12:00:00
author:     "Truong Nhon"
hidden: false
published: true
multilingual: false
catalog:      true
lang: en
tags:
- c#
- database
---

## Introduction

- Entity Framework Core is an ORM framework, open-source, lightweight and cross-platform  developed by Microsoft.
- It enables developers to work with databases using .NET object and EF Core is built on top of ADO.NET

## Relationship

### One-to-One Relationship

```csharp
modelBuilder.Entity<Author>()
    .HasOne(a => a.Book)           // Author has one Book
    .WithOne(b => b.Author)        // Book has one Author
    .HasForeignKey<Book>(b => b.AuthorId);  // Foreign key in Book referencing AuthorId
```

### One-to-Many Relationship

```csharp
modelBuilder.Entity<Author>()
    .HasMany(a => a.Books)         // Author has many Books
    .WithOne(b => b.Author)        // Book has one Author
    .HasForeignKey(b => b.AuthorId);       // Foreign key in Book referencing AuthorId
```

### Many-to-Many Relationship

```csharp
modelBuilder.Entity<StudentCourse>()
    .HasKey(sc => new { sc.StudentId, sc.CourseId });   // Define composite primary key for the join table

modelBuilder.Entity<StudentCourse>()
    .HasOne(sc => sc.Student)
    .WithMany(s => s.Courses)
    .HasForeignKey(sc => sc.StudentId);  // Foreign key in join table referencing StudentId

modelBuilder.Entity<StudentCourse>()
    .HasOne(sc => sc.Course)
    .WithMany(c => c.Students)
    .HasForeignKey(sc => sc.CourseId);  // Foreign key in join table referencing CourseId
```

## DeleteBehavior

The `DeleteBehavior` enum in EF Core includes the following options:

1. **Cascade:** Deleting the principal/parent entity will cause the dependent/child entities to be deleted as well. `OnDelete(DeleteBehavior.Cascade)`

2. **SetNull:** Deleting the principal/parent entity will set the foreign key properties in the dependent/child entities to null. `OnDelete(DeleteBehavior.SetNull)`

3. **SetDefault:** Deleting the principal/parent entity will set the foreign key properties in the dependent/child entities to their default values. `OnDelete(DeleteBehavior.SetDefault)`

4. **Restrict:** Prevents the deletion of the principal/parent entity if there are dependent/child entities. `OnDelete(DeleteBehavior.Restrict)`  . An exception will be thrown.

5. **NoAction:** Similar to `Restrict`, it is used to specify no action on delete. `OnDelete(DeleteBehavior.NoAction)` and you'll need to handle constraints in your application logic.

For example:

```csharp
modelBuilder.Entity<ParentEntity>()
    .HasMany(p => p.ChildEntities)
    .WithOne(c => c.ParentEntity)
    .OnDelete(DeleteBehavior.Restrict);
```

This configuration would set the delete behavior for the relationship between `ParentEntity` and `ChildEntity` to `Restrict`.

## Best pratices

1. **Indexing**: Creating indexes on frequently accessed columns can improve query performance.

2. **Proper data modeling**: Designing tables and relationships properly can improve query performance and prevent performance issues.

3. **Caching**: Storing frequently accessed data in a cache can reduce database calls and improve application performance.

4. **Query optimization**: Writing efficient queries can improve performance. Techniques such as avoiding unnecessary joins and reducing the number of returned columns can help.

5. **Connection pooling**: Reusing database connections instead of creating new ones can improve performance.

6. **Batch processing**: Performing multiple operations in a single database call can improve performance and reduce overhead.

7. **Asynchronous programming**: Using asynchronous programming techniques can improve performance by allowing the application to continue executing while waiting for database calls to complete.
